README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/ThinkR-open/shinipsum.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ThinkR-open/shinipsum)
[![AppVeyor build
status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/ThinkR-open/shinipsum?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ThinkR-open/shinipsum)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/shinipsum?branch=master)
<!-- badges: end -->

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/master/img/thinkr-hex-shinipsum.png" width=250px>

# shinipsum

The goal of {shinipsum} is to provide random shiny elements for easiest
shiny app prototyping, so that you can focus on building the frontend
before building the backend.

## Installation

You can install the dev version of shinipsum from GitHub with:

``` r
remotes::install_github("Thinkr-open/shinipsum")
```

## Demo

Available examples:

``` r
library(shinipsum)
#> Registered S3 methods overwritten by 'ggplot2':
#>   method         from 
#>   [.quosures     rlang
#>   c.quosures     rlang
#>   print.quosures rlang
ipsum_examples()
#> [1] "01_navbar.R"
```

You can run `{shinipsum}` demos with:

``` r
shiny::runApp(
  ipsum_examples("01_navbar.R")
)
```

## Available ipsums :

> Note: {shinipsum} only load functions which are necessary to its
> internal job. If you want to customise an output or to use a renderXX
> / XXOutput, you’ll need to **explicitely** load the packages needed
> (for example, if you want to customise a dygraph, a ggplot, or use
> ggplotly).

### DataTable

`random_DT` takes 4 args :

  - `nrow` & `ncol`: number of row and columns of the table
  - `type` : random, numeric, character, numchar - the type of the
    columns
  - `...` : args to be passed to `DT::datatable`

### Image

`random_image` returns a random image.

### Plot

`random_ggplot` takes one arg :

  - `type` : Can be any of “random”, “point”, “bar”, “boxplot”,“col”,
    “tile”, “line”, “bin2d”, “contour”, “density”, “density\_2d”,
    “dotplot”, “hex”, “freqpoly”, “histogram”, “ribbon”, “raster”,
    “tile”, “violin” and defines the geom of the ggplot. Default is
    “random”, and chooses a random geom for you.

Default theme is minimal.

As the return object is a `ggplot`, it can be enhanced like any other
ggplot with `+`.

``` r
library(ggplot2)
random_ggplot(type = "col") + 
  labs(title = "Random plot") + 
  theme_bw()
```

`random_ggplotly` calls the `ggplotly` function on a `random_ggplot`.

### Dygraph

`random_dygraph` returns a random dygprah. It takes one arg:

  - `...`: arguments which are passed to the `dygraph()` function.

As the return object is a `dygraph`, it can be enhanced like any other
dygraph.

``` r
library(dygraphs)
random_dygraph()  %>% 
  dyRangeSelector()
```

### Print

`random_print` takes one arg:

  - `type`: can be any of `"character", "numeric", "model", "table"`,
    and defines the type of print. Default is `"character"`.

### Table

`random_table` takes three args : `nrow`, `ncols` and `type`. See
`random_DT`.

### Text

`random_text` takes one of these two args :

  - `nchar` : lorem ipsum of `nchar` characters
  - `nwords` : lorem ipsum of `nwords` characters

One of the two should be left `NULL`

## Example

Here is an example of using `{shinipsum}` to generate a random app:

``` r
library(shiny)
library(shinipsum)
library(DT)
ui <- fluidPage(
  h2("A Random DT"),
  DTOutput("data_table"),
  h2("A Random Image"),
  plotOutput("image", height = "300px"),
  h2("A Random Plot"),
  plotOutput("plot"),
  h2("A Random Print"),
  verbatimTextOutput("print"),
  h2("A Random Table"),
  tableOutput("table"),
  h2("A Random Text"),
  tableOutput("text")
)

server <- function(input, output, session) {
  output$data_table <- DT::renderDT({
    random_DT(10, 5)
  })
  output$image <- renderImage({
    random_image()
  })
  output$plot <- renderPlot({
    random_ggplot()
  })
  output$print <- renderPrint({
    random_print("model")
  })
  output$table <- renderTable({
    random_table(10, 5)
  })
  output$text <- renderText({
    random_text(nwords = 50)
  })
}
shinyApp(ui, server)
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/master/img/shinipsum.png">

Please note that the ‘shinipsum’ project is released with a [Contributor
Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By contributing to this project,
you agree to abide by its terms.

Commit message:

add pkgdown url in readme

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/ThinkR-open/shinipsum.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ThinkR-open/shinipsum)
[![AppVeyor build
status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/ThinkR-open/shinipsum?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ThinkR-open/shinipsum)
[![Codecov test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ThinkR-open/shinipsum?branch=master)
<!-- badges: end -->

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/master/img/thinkr-hex-shinipsum.png" width=250px>

# shinipsum

The goal of {shinipsum} is to provide random shiny elements for easiest
shiny app prototyping, so that you can focus on building the frontend
before building the backend.

The full documentation is in the {pkgdown} site:
<https://thinkr-open.github.io/shinipsum/>

## Installation

You can install the dev version of shinipsum from GitHub with:

``` r
remotes::install_github("Thinkr-open/shinipsum")
```

## Demo

Available examples:

``` r
library(shinipsum)
#> Registered S3 methods overwritten by 'ggplot2':
#>   method         from 
#>   [.quosures     rlang
#>   c.quosures     rlang
#>   print.quosures rlang
ipsum_examples()
#> [1] "01_navbar.R"
```

You can run `{shinipsum}` demos with:

``` r
shiny::runApp(
  ipsum_examples("01_navbar.R")
)
```

## Available ipsums :

> Note: {shinipsum} only load functions which are necessary to its
> internal job. If you want to customise an output or to use a renderXX
> / XXOutput, you’ll need to **explicitely** load the packages needed
> (for example, if you want to customise a dygraph, a ggplot, or use
> ggplotly).

### DataTable

`random_DT` takes 4 args :

  - `nrow` & `ncol`: number of row and columns of the table
  - `type` : random, numeric, character, numchar - the type of the
    columns
  - `...` : args to be passed to `DT::datatable`

### Image

`random_image` returns a random image.

### Plot

`random_ggplot` takes one arg :

  - `type` : Can be any of “random”, “point”, “bar”, “boxplot”,“col”,
    “tile”, “line”, “bin2d”, “contour”, “density”, “density\_2d”,
    “dotplot”, “hex”, “freqpoly”, “histogram”, “ribbon”, “raster”,
    “tile”, “violin” and defines the geom of the ggplot. Default is
    “random”, and chooses a random geom for you.

Default theme is minimal.

As the return object is a `ggplot`, it can be enhanced like any other
ggplot with `+`.

``` r
library(ggplot2)
random_ggplot(type = "col") + 
  labs(title = "Random plot") + 
  theme_bw()
```

`random_ggplotly` calls the `ggplotly` function on a `random_ggplot`.

### Dygraph

`random_dygraph` returns a random dygprah. It takes one arg:

  - `...`: arguments which are passed to the `dygraph()` function.

As the return object is a `dygraph`, it can be enhanced like any other
dygraph.

``` r
library(dygraphs)
random_dygraph()  %>% 
  dyRangeSelector()
```

### Print

`random_print` takes one arg:

  - `type`: can be any of `"character", "numeric", "model", "table"`,
    and defines the type of print. Default is `"character"`.

### Table

`random_table` takes three args : `nrow`, `ncols` and `type`. See
`random_DT`.

### Text

`random_text` takes one of these two args :

  - `nchar` : lorem ipsum of `nchar` characters
  - `nwords` : lorem ipsum of `nwords` characters

One of the two should be left `NULL`

## Example

Here is an example of using `{shinipsum}` to generate a random app:

``` r
library(shiny)
library(shinipsum)
library(DT)
ui <- fluidPage(
  h2("A Random DT"),
  DTOutput("data_table"),
  h2("A Random Image"),
  plotOutput("image", height = "300px"),
  h2("A Random Plot"),
  plotOutput("plot"),
  h2("A Random Print"),
  verbatimTextOutput("print"),
  h2("A Random Table"),
  tableOutput("table"),
  h2("A Random Text"),
  tableOutput("text")
)

server <- function(input, output, session) {
  output$data_table <- DT::renderDT({
    random_DT(10, 5)
  })
  output$image <- renderImage({
    random_image()
  })
  output$plot <- renderPlot({
    random_ggplot()
  })
  output$print <- renderPrint({
    random_print("model")
  })
  output$table <- renderTable({
    random_table(10, 5)
  })
  output$text <- renderText({
    random_text(nwords = 50)
  })
}
shinyApp(ui, server)
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThinkR-open/shinipsum/master/img/shinipsum.png">

Please note that the ‘shinipsum’ project is released with a [Contributor
Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By contributing to this project,
you agree to abide by its terms.
